The Joe Rogan experience. Not stereotyping male cheerleaders whatsoever, but.
I have a buddy who's a male cheerleader. Who's awesome.
He's Chappelle's 99.9%. Sure.
He's straight Chappelle lazy, but he's built like a brick house too. I mean.
Collegiate cheerleaders are insane.
Yeah. But then you have to be able to flip through the air.
People don't understand what cheerleading is. Right. They think of it as like,
yeah, go team. No, it's not crazy. Acrobatic.
Even in high school,
like I was throwing girls up in the air by myself and catching them overhead,
you know, like doing like that.
Yeah. That's what's weird. Yeah.
Chappelle does the stuff where he grabs him by the feet, flips them in the air,
catches them on one. It's stupid. It's bananas.
Like the amount of physical power you have to have to be able to do.
That timing. Coordination. Yeah. It's crazy.
I mean,
you have to be a Savage to throw someone in the air and catch them with one
hand. It takes a lot of balls, a lot of power to the explosive power.
For sure. Most men on cheerleaders could never pull that off. No, no,
it's hard. And you, can you do all the flips and to backhand spread? No, no.
Could you do it back then? No.
No, no. That's, that's actually one of the reasons why, like, so I, um,
when I was doing it in high school,
like actually look to do it in college at the collegiate level. Um,
but tumbling was like a minimum requirement and I was like, yeah,
I'm a little too chunky and. So.
So how did you get into power lifting and strong man?
So that like, honestly, totally by chance. Um,
I was working out in my high school weight room one day after school and a
substitute teacher happened to walk by who owned a CrossFit gym.
And he was like, Hey, uh, you know, I, um, I'm at this CrossFit gym. Like,
you seem like you like this stuff and you're pretty strong,
like feel free to come by. So I would start,
I actually started training with him at like five o'clock in the morning before
school, um, would, and I found out really quickly, I sucked the CrossFit,
but I like to lifting heavy.
And this was back in 2009 and walked into the gym one morning and they were
like, Hey, there's a local strong man contest. Uh,
this Saturday we signed you up for it.
So when you say you sucked at CrossFit CrossFit,
just a bunch of Olympic lifts and different explosive exercises, I just wasn't.
In shape.
Right. So the, the ability to do math, to do rev.
And the workouts. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, so yeah,
so they signed me up for my first contest.
I was 17 years old and had never touched an implement.
I had just seen it on TV. Like everybody else in world's strongest,
man got my kicked took last place.
But you are 17. And how much lifting had you done previous to that? Maybe.
Maybe four or five months, really. But at that point,
like I had hit the 500 pound deadlift.
And you'd only been lifting for a couple months. I'll see,
just a freak genetically.
In a few lists, in a few lifts. I was good at.
That's a lot of weight for a few months of lifting. Um.
Yeah, so the contest went horrible for me,
but I absolutely fell in love with the sport. Um,
ended up at Springfield college in Massachusetts and joined their powerlifting
team. And that's when I kind of got, you know,
more of a background in lifting proper technique and all that stuff.
And then did another local strong man contest where I met this guy, Matt mills,
who owns a gym, lightening fitness in Connecticut, we're at train now. And, um,
he was like, yeah, you know,
like I'm just starting to get all the strong man equipment.
You should come down. It's only about 30 minutes from their school. So I would,
I actually would go there every Saturday morning from when I was in college to
train strong man.
And that's when I kind of started competing in the amateur circuit. Um,
you know, and that's kind of led me on my trajectory to here.
So you're one of those rare people that actually lives in Connecticut.
I live in Massachusetts, you right over the border.
Escape, go over there, work out real quick and then leave. Yeah.
Connecticut strange. It's something it's a strange place.
That's a lost state. Yeah.
So you get into powerlifting and then what was
your exposure to like truck pulling and all that other crazy?
Um, so really not much, you know, uh, you know,
the cool thing about strong man is every contest is different that we do. No,
we know we never do a same, you know,
I've done the sport for over 10 years now and I've never done a contest where
the events have been the same in that span of time. Do.
You know what it's going to be before you sign up typically?
So you end up, we.
Get about a series of lifts eight to 12.
Weeks notice depending on the contest. Um,
so the gym that I was going to in Connecticut,
they were just starting to acquire strong man equipment.
So it was pretty bare bones. So like we had a steel log, you know,
for the log clean and press. They had some Atlas stones. Um,
some farmers handles a yolk and that's pretty much it.
And then over the years he would get more and more and more.
And now it's turned into this massive 15,000 square foot facility and the gym
owner, we call him an equipment hor because he buys some,
every time something new comes out, he buys it. Um, so yeah,
like my, my exposure to the equipment in the beginning was pretty minimal boat.
What I did to compensate for that as I just competed more.
So I would pretty much from Springfield, Massachusetts,
I drew a five-hour radius from where I was and any contest there was in
that radius I would do. Um, so in my first like three years,
I competed probably like almost 40 times. Whoa.
How often are these things being held.
At the amateur level? Pretty often, there's usually you could find, you know,
I would say one or two, you know, per month in new England alone, really. Um,
and then they're all over the country. So, you know, I think the cool thing is,
you know, like I was really, like I said,
I took last in my first contest and that went on for a while.
I took dead last and like my first eight shows that I did. So, like,
I wasn't good at this thing when I started.
Now, when did you start being successful?
20? So I went to amateur nationals actually in the 200 pound weight class.
So I weighed in a hundred, 200 pounds in 2011.
That was my first time at the amateur national.
So I'd been doing it for about two years.
I'm surprised myself and ended up taking second place in that weight class. Uh,
went back to the amateur nationals as a 2 31 and two 12,
and took second place there and then won the amateur national championship in
2013. And that's where I be, you know,
where I won my pro carton kind of got to that next level.
It's such a difficult thing to do that I would imagine doing it 40 times a year.
Like you're going to get injured.
Luckily I didn't really, I mean, you know, I'm fortunate we're um, uh,
so by trade and what I went to school for is I'm an athletic trainer. Um,
so sports medicine has kind of been my thing. So, you know,
I've been lucky enough to learn, um,
when I was training of when I need to back off,
when I can push a little bit harder, what needs to be taken care of, um,
and just try to be smart, you know, I mean, I'm, you know, knock on wood,
you know,
I've had one serious injury in the 10 years that I've been doing this and what
was, uh, um, it was summer of 2018.
I dropped 275 pound Atlas stone on my chest. Oh, so,
uh, tore my QL in my low back, broke three ribs. Oh, Jesus.
Put me out of commission for a little while. And you know, once you drop it,
where, what was it? Was that a contest? I was in second place by one point. Um,
so it was the final event of the contest and, uh,
I went to push the stone onto the,
so the thing is with me being only five 10 with the Atlas stones,
like the first box you have to put the stone on is high, you know?
So this was 75 inches tall. Um, you know, and I'm only five 10,
so it was literally like eyebrow height.
So I had to like press it up onto the box and uh, I thought it was up there.
It wasn't secured. It ended up rolling off, fell on my chest. Oh.
Yeah.
And, uh, you know,
naturally that was the first contest my mom had come seen in person in like four
years. So she was in the stands, watching it happen, kill by a Boulder. Yep.
Perfect timing. Yeah.
So how long did it take you to recover from that?
Let's see, that was,
that was in June or June or July of 2018.
And I didn't do my next contest until March of 2019. Oh, wow. Yeah,
it took me off for awhile. Yeah.
I could have only met 275 pound stone.
Ball and that was the lightest one we had in the series.
Wow. Jesus Christ.
So just your background in understanding athletic science or exercise science
allows you to know when you're being silly and when you, you know,
you, you're not going to be a, but you're not going to be dumb.
Exactly. And I think that's where it's, that's why I've been lucky, you know,
and kind of stayed injury free because even like to this day, like, you know,
so my coaches, um, you know, pretty well renounced, strong man,
Derek Poundstone, who, you know, took second place at world's strongest man. Um,
and he programmed some crazy for me,
but there are some days where I'm just like, yo dude,
this is not gonna fly today.
You have a light, like what's a light day. Um.
You know, so like I train four days a week and I get like one,
like I call him like my bro day. It's like my bench back in arms day.
Um.
You know, do that. Yeah. Yeah.
So it, it's more just like,
cause like bench press is going to like build up your triceps.
It's going to build up the anterior Delt. It's going to help like bench press,
actually it helps your overhead lifts. And um, so I do that in that,
that's what I consider like my light day,
but like I'll still bench like in the mid fours.
Um, so, so four days a week. Yeah. And so how do you,
how do you structure it? Do you do every other day, do you do?
Um, it all depends on the week really. So typically I try to go Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday, Sunday. That's usually my, my average week. Um,
so Tuesday is like my big overhead day where I'll do a strong man movement,
overheads, like log, press, or dumbbell. Um, and then a bunch of shoulder,
overhead accessory work Thursday. My day two is my biggest day.
So I squat and deadlift in the same day. Um,
and that's a workout that sometimes takes four to five hours. Right?
Yeah. So did you big spaces in between each workout?
So you lift and then do you, do you have like a large.
We talked about 10, 15 minutes between sets sometimes. Like, you know,
like we're building up to the Arnold strongman classic in Columbus, Ohio,
this coming March. And um, you know,
we have a max deadlift coming up and you know,
I'm potentially going to be on for a 1000 pound deadlift and
Christ, you know,
so like to get through a deadlift workout where I'm deadlifting oh yeah.
There's me.
There's huge.
Look at the bar bending that's what's most up about it is looking at.
So that was, that was 850 pounds on the, on the deadlift right there. What.
Does that, that dumbbell right there?
That Dumbo was 2 50, 2 51.
Arm overhead, press, Hey, that the dead lift though is,
so what is that thing it's called a HUSA felt stone. Clara coffin.
Yup. Pretty much that weighs four 50.
Wow. Are you wearing, uh, like a backstrap let go a bell.
So we're about really work does. Yeah. What does it do?
So it helps like build intra-abdominal pressure, um,
but also gives just like some tactile feedback to like,
know where you need to brace. Um, so usually weightlifters,
like we'll put it where like we feel weakest in our core, um,
and that's gonna help us activate those muscles to be a little bit stronger and
you know, more effectively brace to prevent injury.
'Cause I never, I never understood how it protect you from a lift.
Like if you're lifting heavy weights and you got that strap around your back.
Yeah.
It's not really tech it's I guess it's not really meant to like protect per se.
Um, more just to like help add extra support. That's the biggest thing.
So it does you, you don't do heavy lifts without no.
No, no. I keep it on. Yeah. Whenever I'm going heavy. That's.
Pretty much standard for powerlifters.
Oh yeah. Power lifting.
Strong man. Yeah. We're we're all wearing like pretty heavy duty belts.